## Idea

**This file serves as a way of fleshing out my original idea for this project, the final product might look different from this.**

### Workout Tracking

Similar to many other workout apps, my product will center around *per-workout logging*, where users input the number of sets and reps, along with the weight, for each exercise done. The program will have a built-in *database of exercises*, along with a system of adding *custom exercises* if the app doesn't support them yet. Additionally, there will be more details within each workout, such as the amount of time it took. Through this, users will be able to view their past workouts in detail.

### Body View

One of the largest aspects of my program will be a *3d model of the human body*, illustrating what muscles have been worked recently, as well as to what degree they were worked. My vision for the model is that it will be a rough, abstract wireframe of the body, with separations for all the major muscle groups, as well as the specific parts of them (i.e. the three heads of the tricep). Over the frame, a color graph not unlike a heatmap will be displayed, with black meaning the muscle hasn't been worked (the background will be black as well, thus it will display as transparent), bright green meaning it has been worked to maximum capacity, and red meaning it hasn't been worked enough. A gradient will be created between green and red to display partial load. The color map will be facilitated by *proprietary mathematical functions* based off scientific studies on the muscle load generated by different exercises. In the case that a user inputs a custom exercise, they will be prompted to enter which muscle groups were worked, as well as how hard ("light", "medium", "heavy"), off which an approximation will be made.

### PR ("Maxes") Tracking

This is one of the smaller aspects of the program, but still important: a page to enter current personal records ("maxes"), so that people can *track their progress over time*. Many people currently use maxes as metrics for their growth, so this will be a simple quality-of-life feature for users. 

### Graphs

To compliment the body view and PR tracking, I will implement *progress graphs*, displaying many different aspects of their weightlifting journey over time. For example, the different PRs will have progress graphs, and I plan on adding such graphs into the exercise database mentioned earlier. Another idea I had for this would be finding some way to average the strength level of the major muscle groups throughout different exercises, showing graphs of general progress. These could be displayed by hovering over the muscle groups in the body view.

### Routine Templates

Another small feature, I plan to implement *customizable routine templates*. If someone has a split they particularly like, and hit the same exercises every time, they can add it in as a routine template for quicker data inputting after their workouts.

### Friendly Competition

One of the parts of the program that I will implement last will be *inter-user communication*. One of the founding reasons for my conception of this project was to make a way to compete with my best friend through lifting, which other similar apps failed to do in the way I envisioned. *Leaderboards* would be one way to do this, along with profiles and a *friend-adding system*. Some of the graphs would be visible, and maybe a reduced version of the body view, but I have to think about that more to ensure privacy. A *settings menu* might suffice for this, as users would be able to choose what they'd like to display.

### Cloud Database

In order to have *data persistence* within my product, I will implement a *cloud database* of some sort. I still have to decide the details on how I will bring this to fruition, but it is a vital part of the program.

### Login System

To make sure that the users can access their data regardless of what device they access the website from, as well as to be able to save their data effectively, I will implement a *login system*. There isn't more more to elaborate on this, most applications of this sort feature a similar system.

### Data Security

Data security is definitely a huge problem when making an app that deals with personal information and health data. Thus, I will have to brainstorm how to keep the data secure. One of my largest concerns thus far is how I will keep the data security code private, as this project is tracked as a git repository accessible to the internet.
